# 6.5 Code Coverage

Code coverage refers to the degree to which the source code of a software system is executed when a particular test suite runs. It is an essential metric in software testing, as it helps to determine the effectiveness of the tests in verifying the system's behavior.

In JavaScript testing, code coverage can be measured using the Jest testing framework. Jest provides built-in support for code coverage, and it generates a detailed report showing the coverage results after running the test suite.

To measure code coverage with Jest, we need to add the `--coverage` flag to the `jest` command. For example:

```
jest --coverage
```

This command will run the test suite and generate a code coverage report in the `coverage/` directory. The report includes information on which lines of code were executed during the test run and which lines were not.

By analyzing the code coverage report, we can identify parts of the code that are not adequately covered by the test suite. We can then improve our tests by adding additional test cases to cover those areas.

It is important to note that code coverage alone does not guarantee the effectiveness of the test suite. It is possible to have high code coverage but still have gaps in the testing. Therefore, code coverage should be used in conjunction with other metrics, such as mutation testing and test quality, to ensure that the test suite is effective in verifying the system's behavior.

## Example code:
To demonstrate code coverage, let's consider a simple JavaScript function that calculates the sum of two numbers:

```
function sum(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

We can write a test case for this function using Jest:

```
test('sums two numbers', () => {
  expect(sum(2, 3)).toBe(5);
  expect(sum(0, 0)).toBe(0);
  expect(sum(-1, 1)).toBe(0);
});
```

Now, we can run Jest with the `--coverage` flag to generate a coverage report:

```
jest --coverage
```

This will generate a coverage report in the `coverage` folder, which will contain an HTML file that we can open in a web browser. The HTML report will show us the percentage of code coverage for our tests, as well as highlight any lines of code that are not covered by our tests.

By using code coverage to guide our testing efforts, we can ensure that we're testing all parts of our code, and identify areas that may need more testing to improve the overall quality and reliability of our software.