# 1.4 Control flow statements

In JavaScript, control flow statements are used to control the order in which the code is executed. These statements allow you to make decisions and execute code based on certain conditions. Some of the most commonly used control flow statements in JavaScript are:

- `if statements:` if statements are used to check if a certain condition is true and execute a block of code if it is. If the condition is false, the code in the block is skipped.

```
if (condition) {
  // Code to execute if condition is true
}
```

- `else statements:` else statements are used with if statements to execute code when the condition is false.
```
if (condition) {
  // Code to execute if condition is true
} else {
  // Code to execute if condition is false
}
```

- `else if statements:` else if statements are used to check multiple conditions and execute different code based on the condition that is true.
```
if (condition1) {
  // Code to execute if condition1 is true
} else if (condition2) {
  // Code to execute if condition2 is true
} else {
  // Code to execute if all conditions are false
}
```

- `switch statements:` switch statements are used to execute different code based on the value of an expression. The expression is evaluated once and the code associated with the value that matches is executed. If there is no match, the default code is executed.
```
switch (expression) {
  case value1:
    // Code to execute if expression equals value1
    break;
  case value2:
    // Code to execute if expression equals value2
    break;
  default:
    // Code to execute if no match is found
    break;
}
```

- `Loops:` Loops are used to execute a block of code repeatedly. The most commonly used loops in JavaScript are for loops and while loops.
```
// for loop
for (let i = 0; i < length; i++) {
  // Code to execute for each iteration
}

// while loop
while (condition) {
  // Code to execute while condition is true
}
```

In addition to these statements, JavaScript also has logical operators (&& and ||) and comparison operators (==, !=, >, <, >=, <=) that are used in control flow statements to evaluate conditions. With control flow statements, you can create more dynamic and interactive applications by allowing your code to make decisions based on user input and other factors.