# 2.1 Functions and their uses

Functions are one of the most important concepts in JavaScript programming. A function is a block of code that can be called and executed at any time, and can be used to group together a set of instructions that perform a specific task.

Functions are used in JavaScript for a variety of purposes, such as:

- `Reusability:` Functions can be called multiple times from different parts of a program, making code more modular and easier to maintain.
- `Encapsulation:` Functions allow developers to hide the implementation details of a specific task, making code more abstract and easier to reason about.
- `Abstraction:` Functions can be used to abstract away complex tasks, making code more readable and easier to understand.
To create a function in JavaScript, you can use the "function" keyword followed by the name of the function, any parameters it takes in (inside parentheses), and the code block (inside curly braces) that defines what the function does. For example:

```
function greet(name) {
  console.log("Hello, " + name + "!");
}
```
This function, called "greet", takes in one parameter called "name" and logs a greeting to the console with the provided name.

To call a function, you simply write the name of the function followed by any arguments it takes in (inside parentheses). For example:

```
greet("John"); // logs "Hello, John!"
```
In this example, the function "greet" is called with the argument "John".

Functions can also have return values, which allow them to pass data back to the calling code. To return a value from a function, you can use the "return" keyword followed by the value you want to return. For example:

```
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

let sum = add(2, 3); // assigns 5 to the variable "sum"
```
In this example, the function "add" takes in two parameters, "a" and "b", and returns their sum. The variable "sum" is then assigned the value returned by the function.

JavaScript also allows for function expressions, which are functions that are assigned to variables. For example:

```
let greet = function(name) {
  console.log("Hello, " + name + "!");
};
```
In this example, a function called "greet" is defined and assigned to the variable "greet". This function can then be called by invoking the variable as a function:

```
greet("John"); // logs "Hello, John!"
```
Arrow functions are another way to define functions in JavaScript. They are a shorthand syntax for function expressions and can be used to write more concise code. For example:

```
let add = (a, b) => a + b;
```
This function, called "add", takes in two parameters, "a" and "b", and returns their sum using the arrow syntax. Arrow functions are especially useful for callbacks and higher-order functions, which we will cover in module 3.