# 3.2 Object creation and manipulation

In JavaScript, objects are collections of key-value pairs. An object's keys are also called properties, and its values can be any data type, including other objects or functions. Objects in JavaScript can be created in several ways, including object literals, constructor functions, and the newer class syntax introduced in ES6.

To create an object using an object literal, you can use curly braces {} and define its properties and values:

```
const person = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
  hobbies: ["reading", "coding"],
  greet: function() {
    console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name} and I'm ${this.age} years old.`);
  }
};
```
To access an object's properties, you can use dot notation or bracket notation:

```
console.log(person.name); // "John"
console.log(person["age"]); // 30
```
To add or modify properties and methods of an object, you can simply assign new values to them:

```
person.age = 35;
person.job = "developer";
person.greet = function() {
  console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name} and I'm a ${this.job}.`);
};
```
In addition to object literals, you can also create objects using constructor functions. Constructor functions are functions that are designed to be used with the new keyword to create new objects:

```
function Person(name, age) {
  this.name = name;
  this.age = age;
  this.greet = function() {
    console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name} and I'm ${this.age} years old.`);
  };
}

const john = new Person("John", 30);
john.greet(); // "Hello, my name is John and I'm 30 years old."
```
In the above example, Person is a constructor function that takes two arguments (name and age) and sets them as properties of the newly created object using the this keyword.

To add methods or properties to all instances of an object created using a constructor function, you can use the prototype property. The prototype property is an object that exists on all constructor functions and can be used to add methods or properties that will be inherited by all instances of the object:

```
Person.prototype.job = "unemployed";
john.job = "developer"; // only john's job will be set to "developer"
console.log(john.job); // "developer"
console.log(Person.prototype.job); // "unemployed"
```
In the above example, we added a job property to the Person prototype, and it is inherited by all instances of the Person object. However, you can still modify the job property of a specific instance, and that modification will only affect that instance.

Overall, objects are a fundamental part of JavaScript programming, and understanding how to create and manipulate them is essential for object-oriented programming in JavaScript.